## Implicit authentication

Many smartphones applications are actually a showcase of an online service, such as Netflix, Skype, Facebook, Twitter, etc. When it comes to user account settings management, there are several approaches. Indeed, the changes that must apply regardless of the device must be sent to the backend servers to make them persistent. A first approach might be to manage all settings within the smartphone application, and the synchronisation process is made totally transparent to the user. A second approach consists of using a Webview, framing the content in a restricted box, where no extension is active. A third approach, much easier but less convenient is simply to open a browser and make the user log into their account. It is then up to the browser and the mobile version of the website to manage offer the interface to manage settings. However, this browser is launched as an external application, and extensions work normally. A fourth way, is similar the latter, but the user will be automatically logged into their account. It is the case, at the time of writing, for Netflix or Skype. Opening Netflix account settings from the mobile application opens a webpage in a browser with the user already logged into.

What happens in the case of Netflix is that the URL of webpage is as follows: https://www.netflix.com/youraccount?nftoken=<Base64-token>. The token is generated with asymmetric cryptography, and serves as one-time password. However, if an extension is allowed to run in Netflix's pages, it can steal this token and send it to an attacker, allowing them to also log into the victim's account.  
We observed that Skype used a similar mechanism when claiming a new phone number. When it comes to mobile extensions, such authentication is not safe at all
